>> Speaker 1: Could you just
show the y function again?
>> Erik: Yep, so the y function
accepts the element and the value.
If the value is provided, then it
tries to set this value as attribute.
If is not provided,
then we just get the attribute.
And if the attribute exists,
then we return the number.
Here we do the cast because
attribute is a string value.
So we need to make sure
that the y is the number.
And then if it's not provided,
then we return nope.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have a general rule
of thumb when to reach for virtualization?
>> Erik: Yeah, I think the good rule of
thumb is, when you work with the mobile
apps where you need to make sure that
you don't overuse the memory and
you're expected to load many things, then
the virtualization is a good way to go.
For instance, mobile app of the social
network, or when you're rendering
the table with thousands of elements, then
where it's the best place to invoke that.
But for desktop apps,
I think we need to adjust the limit of
the elements because desktops
have a good memory amount.
And instead of rendering only 10
elements and then do the virtualization,
we can actually allow having
200 elements before we recycle.
Or we can even disable the virtualization
because for desktops, virtualization is
not that relevant because now the desktop
have a very good performance and CPU.
So we don't really need to
overcomplicate the design of our app.
But for the mobile devices,
that's the best way to go.
>> Speaker 2: Someone said, most likely
if you need to fetch the data in chunks.
>> Erik: So even if you need
to fetch the data in chunks,
you still can implement the lazy loading
where you just update existing DOM tree
without recycling the elements.
Right now,
the difference with virtualization,
we always maintain
a constant number of nodes.
So we say limit is 20, so
we can't exceed this amount.
But when you do the lazy list,
when you load the data in chunks,
then you can just append new elements
on the screen without thinking about
how do I need to recycle
the previous rendered elements.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, it's generally,
I've only seen it really affect desktop if
there's thousands of elements or more,
because it did work on a backlog
management utility app, I think it was
like five years ago or something like.
I can't remember exactly how long ago
it was, but I ran into performance
issues with 1,000 elements, and
it just was scrolling the list.
Once it starts to feel sticky,
that's a point you should consider-
>> Erik: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: A tool like this,
if it's just not scrolling, it's smooth.
>> Erik: I also agree.
I think the virtualization is used in some
places where they actually don't need it.
If you have 95% of your
clients on desktop,
why would you overcomplicate
the design of your app?
You can just render things in a DOM tree,
yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So
when we set the position to absolute, and
then we adjust the positioning,
does that trigger a reflow?
>> Erik: So when we set the position
to absolute and we adjust the position,
we trigger the reflow,
but remember the pipeline.
So there is a optimized pipeline
where we trigger just the painting.
Whether you move elements around,
we say transform,
you don't trigger the full pipeline,
you just trigger the GPU pipeline, and
it doesn't impact the rendering thread.
That's why it's fast.
>> Speaker 3: Okay, [INAUDIBLE] That's
the beta, essentially, [INAUDIBLE]
>> Erik: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: How did position
absolute solve the problem here?
>> Erik: So if you don't remove
the elements from the normal flow,
then they will take the position
where they should be rendered.
So you would need to adjust that.
But when we set it to absolute,
then all the elements position
are reset to top left most quarter.
So we can adjust that position
using the transformation.
And we provided the relative container,
which is the virtual list
container as a reference point.
So now all the elements use this
container to calculate its position.
So if using the normal flow,
you would need to account the normal flow
positioning that would
overcomplicate the calculations.